Commissions & Claim Permissions for Pools (#4996)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-guides-staking-pools.md

---
id: learn-guides-staking-pools
title: Nomination Pools How-to Guides
sidebar_label: Nomination Pools
description: Advanced How-to Guides about Nomination Pools.
keyword: [nominate, stake, staking, pools, create, destroy, claim, rewards]
slug: ../learn-guides-staking-pools
---

> 

Reviewer: Import RPC otherwise will be empty ;)

```suggestion
import RPC from "./../../components/RPC-Connection";
```

## Pool Creation

The depositor calls the `create` extrinsic, setting the administrative roles and transferring some
funds to the pool to add themselves as the first member. As stated above, the depositor must always
be a member as long as the pool exists; they will be the last member to leave, ensuring they always
have some skin in the game. A significant stake from the depositor is always a good indicator of the
pool's credibility.

**The current minimum bond to create a pool on**
{{ polkadot: **Polkadot** :polkadot }}{{ kusama: **Kusama** :kusama }}
{{ polkadot: **is <RPC network="polkadot" path="query.nominationPools.minCreateBond" defaultValue={2000000000000} filter="humanReadable" />.** :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: **is <RPC network="kusama" path="query.nominationPools.minCreateBond" defaultValue={1000000000000} filter="humanReadable" />.** :kusama }}

The pool’s ‘nominator role’ selects validators with the nominate extrinsic. On Polkadot JS Apps UI,
navigate to Network > Staking > Pools and click on Add Pool button.

![Create Nomination Pools](../assets/staking/Nomination-Pools-1.png)

> The UI automatically assigns ID to the pool and allows for entering the name of the pools as well as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI automatically assigns an ID to the pool and allows for entering the name of the pools and
```

the deposit to be bonded.

![Create Nomination Pools - deposit](../assets/staking/Nomination-Pools-2.png)

When creating a pool using Polkadot JS Apps UI, all the roles are mapped to the Depositor account by
default. If any of these roles need to be assigned to a different account, create the pool using

> `create` extrinsic available on Developer > Extrinsics > nominationPools on Polkadot JS Apps UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`create` extrinsic available in[ Developer > Extrinsics > nominationPools](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/extrinsics) on Polkadot JS Apps UI.
```

![Nomination Pool Roles](../assets/staking/Nomination-Pools-7.png)

## Pool Upkeep

The nominator can update the pool’s validator selection. On Polkadot JS Apps UI, navigate to

> Network > Staking > Accounts page and click on Pooled button. If you have any pooled accounts with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Network > Staking > Accounts page](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/staking/actions) and click on Pooled button. If you have any pooled accounts with
```

the role of nominator, you will notice the option to set nominees. Select the validators to nominate
like you would normally using a nominator account.

![Nominate validators](../assets/staking/Nomination-Pools-5.png)

The root and bouncer can update the pool’s state to blocked through `setState` extrinsic and kick
members by calling `unbond` and `withdrawUnbonded`. (The state can also be toggled back to open).

## Pool Destruction

> A pool can be pushed into the “destroying” state via one of:

Reviewer: How is this done? via an extrinsic?

Author: will add this
